I'm here with Eric Wargo this has been a
long time coming cuz I think I refer to
your books like in every episode that I
do and so this is an honor I really
appreciate it found myself in your neck
of the woods uh in DC and uh you know
had had to do this and I'm really
excited you written three books uh the
two that I've read are time loops and
from nowhere uh and they're just
incredible in the world of kind of AI
doomsdayers where that's you know all
the rage these days where I think people
struggle to of separate the human mind
from kind of the the the robotic mind
that is AI uh you have a new theory of
mind that I think comports with a lot of
people's intuitions as to how the human
mind works I want to start with a really
interesting concept that you actually
present at the beginning of time Loops
which is this idea that often prophecies
are you get some sort of message that
message actually causes you to react in
a certain way to the message that then
manifests or causes the actual prophecy
to come to fruition and the traditional
example of this might be edus how do you
explain that what what sort of model do
you apply to that if it works the way I
think it works and I think that scient
various Trends in science are converging
I think on a a an actual physical
explanation for how it works if it works
that way prophecies have have to be
self-fulfilling now what does that mean
events in the future are in a sense
fixed in the same way events in the past
are fixed now if that's the
case any kind of time travel and
precognition is really a form of time
travel it's a form of informational time
travel
cannot change history okay there's this
is a a misconception people people
somehow they think about precognition or
they think about time travel I think but
wait you could go in the past go into
the past and change history and and kill
your grandfather and so you would you
know you couldn't be born and all that
you grandfather Paradox AP
St
that's uh it's kind of faulty reasoning
uh and in fact physicists in the in the
80s kind of did the math I mean they got
interested in wormholes and things like
that and they did the math uh and found
that no in fact if you send a particle
through a wormhole or billiard ball
through a wormhole and try to deflect it
away from the Wormhole it fails you're
always gonna deflect yourself into the
Wormhole and you're always going to be
in what's called a closed timelight
curve or a Time Loop it means that the
universe is self-consistent it means you
uh Paradox doesn't occur and that's the
definition of paradox something that
can't occur um so any intervention in
time any backward influence via
information alone or via physical
objects traveling uh through a wormhole
or a time machine or something like
that that that Adventure in the past
whatever it is is already part of the
backstory of getting in the time machine
in the future um and there's really no
problem there's really no problem with
time travel or with information
traveling in time it doesn't lead to
Paradox you just have to wrap your head
around the idea that that you now are
the product of time traveling
information already and maybe Time
Travelers you know you know your history
your past history includes you know all
that time traveling uh either physical
time traveling of advanced beings or and
very at the very least information in
your head that's traveled back in time
from your future you are you now are the
product of information reflexing from
your future and influencing your past
and influencing your present M that's
why uh we can say that prophecy is
always self-fulfilling now that doesn't
mean it in a simplistic way that that
that you know you have a dream and
things are going to turn out exactly the
way you dreamed it there are all kinds
of reasons why we don't interpret
prophecies accurately there's all kinds
of reasons why the brain distorts
information coming from our future I
think what one of the basic things that
we're
precognized uh and so we're in a sort of
time Loop relationship to our future
surviving self and imagine that's the
case for even you know bacteria in the
primordial soup you know that it goes
back to the beginnings of the evolution
of Life uh it's a it's a it's just a new
way of thinking about causation yeah
it's interesting because on the one hand
I think belief in the block universe is
traditionally associated with nihilism
or something it's like your future is
sort of cemented in stone and then on
the other hand what you're saying is
there is sort of evolution upwards
towards probably greater Consciousness
and especially if artist artists are
Reaching Forward into their future for
kind of
inspiration you know presumably that
future is very rich and you know
involves maybe more Consciousness than
is present I do want to get into just a
few examples because I think that's
really powerful for kind of the average
person uh getting into this sort of
stuff because it's so trippy and not you
know uh in accord with their normal
worldview and so the example that I love
is Carl Young has this patient she's
this kind of very inaccessible kind of
hyper rationalist patient who he can't
kind of get through to obviously Carl
Young is this contemporary of freuds but
who's even trippier in in many ways than
Freud and um he sees her and she comes
in and she says look I had I had this
dream last night that I was gifted this
golden scare Beetle and it was this
really meaningful thing to me she
doesn't quite know what to make of it
and as she's telling recounting the
story she sees a a scarab beetle coming
down off the window seal and uh he then
takes the scarab beetle and Gifts it to
her and it's this like mindblowing super
meaningful thing for her that like
changes her Paradigm and so it's the uh
attentional patterns of actually knowing
the sort of Prophecy or the dream the
pre precognitive dream changing her
reaction her being aware of that dream
actually caused the whole thing to
happen which I just find so fascinating
that's my favorite example of a Time
Loop that's the one I always use when
people ask me what a Time Loop is that's
the example because it's so uh it's so
perfect it you know it shows exactly how
a dream changes Behavior and the
behavior leads to the outcome in in an
unforeseen way I mean they she couldn't
have known uh you know we I mentioned
how dreams you know they they show us
the future but not in a very clear way
and often in a not directly
intentionally actionable way but they
had changed our Behavior like being
deflected by uh you like Billiards being
deflected you know it's like it's a that
was a billiard ball from her future
which deflected her to this experience
in her therapist's office the next day
and lo and behold that that experience
that had deflected her toward was what
she dreamed about but she couldn't have
known that uh when she had the dream um
so yeah that's that's a beautiful
beautiful example do you have any other
examples that you
love oh so many I mean I mean another
one would be just edus which is
obviously sort of mythological but do
you want to tell that story yeah well I
mean there's a lot to say about edus
because I mean if anyone you know if
anyone knows anything about edus these
days it's they're going to be thinking
about oh Sigman Freud you know because
of the edus complex and all that and he
you know he focused well the asopus
story is that uh this there's this
prophecy that this young prince of
Thieves is going to grow up and murder
his father and marry his mother um and
so to evade this
prophecy uh he flee when he learns about
this prophecy he flees his his City he
doesn't know that he's actually been
brought up in a foster or adopted family
so he flees his City
winds up killing this man at a
Crossroads who turns out to be his
father and then winds up marrying his
mother unknowingly and become you know
so he fulfills the process it fulfills
the prophecy exactly in his efforts to
evade the prophecy um and this is you
know this logic uh is I think crucial to
to how we relate to to time and to our
precognition which we we deny our
precognition we deny that prophecy you
know partly because of cultural tabos
and and all kinds of things uh the
interesting thing is that Freud I mean
he he he was only interested in that
that uh that insestuous idea like the
that part of the story so he talked
about the edus complex and you know how
uh children are sexually attracted to
their uh their opposite sex parent and
want to kill because they're they're
jealous of same sep and so on um but you
know he he sort of denied he didn't
believe in precognition and he denied
the the rest of the story about the pro
you know the prophecy and all that
because well that's just premodern you
know Superstition the thing is in
Freud's own life he the dream that sort
of uh started it all for Freud uh it was
a dream he had in
1895 um famous dream and he spent like
14 pages of his his Landmark book
interpretation of dreams you know
interpreting this dream through free
association and stuff like that well
like 28 years later I think I may be
getting the number wrong uh he had an he
developed an oral cancer which like all
these elements these key elements in
that dream he'd had almost three decades
earlier came true in his life and he
never acknowledged that that dream was a
premonition but it's it's like in
Freud's own life he lived out that edus
story I mean he denied precognition he
denied prophecy he denied you know the
very existence and and like patients
would bring him precognitive dreams all
the time because people have these
dreams all the time and they would bring
him their dreams and he would just
explain them away in in in some fasile
way and in his own life he winds up
denying prophecy and then developing
this oral cancer which by the way was
caused by his smoking uh and there are
hints in the dream of that fact you know
so it has been argued that well had he
you paid attention to this dream as a
warning from his future you know he
might have quit smoking and all that
that gets into these problems we talked
about earlier of of time loops and
foreclosing a a foreseen future it
doesn't work as simply as that but uh
that yes that's so that's another way in
which uh we fulfill a prophecy by
denying it or ignoring it or shutting it
aside um so I think that's a hugely
important archetype for modern people
because we live in a culture that
denies uh that that the future can
influence us especially in dreams and
you know what what effect is that what
impact does that have on our our Mental
Health on our uh fortunes um that's
absolutely fascinating because you think
of Freud as beling that most people are
sort of repressed and they have sort of
an ego and an ID and the ID is sort of
this compartmentalized Savage self or
something you know all these repressed
desires and so maybe the ID for him was
in some ways realizing that like his his
own work was actually sort of somewhat
autobiographical because I you know he
did have that interesting relationship
with his own mother yeah and uh so you
know it's like yeah who watches the
Watchmen or whatever he's this like
preeminent psychologist but in fact you
know maybe a lot of his own work and
theories are actually projection of his
own subconscious well it it's his um
this is why I think Freud is so
interesting and important in all this
because even though he didn't believe in
Pre cognition per se uh his theory his
what what's sometimes called his
metapsychology which is that that's that
kind of layered model of the of
Consciousness where you have the the tip
of the iceberg that's the conscious self
and then this buried submerged
unconscious
that theory of the unconscious is super
important and it it's a ready-made
theory of precognition because really
precognition manifests in all the ways
that interested Freud in his career so
being with dreams that's the number one
way that people become aware that they
are precognitive uh is through having
precognitive dreams but also they
manifest in Waking Life in these kinds
of uh what he called the Psychopathology
of everyday life which is uh that was
the title of his second book uh which is
things like slips of the tongue and what
we now call synchronicities you didn't
have that word yet that was a term
introduced by Carl Young
um you know more generally just H you
know having a random thought about an
old friend and then seeing him on the
street you know like that it's a very
typical experience uh uh and other like
foibles like neurotic symptoms or
whatever that that W these all these
uh all these kind of quirks of human
behavior that's how precognition that's
how it gets our attention that's how we
experience it and creativity which is
the subject of my my most recent book
and my next book that's coming um so
it's a readymade it's a readymade theory
to understand precognition we just have
to the way I always put it you know you
okay you picture the iceberg with the
the tip on top and the the submerged
base but you know you usually we think
of time as a as an axis an x-axis you
know running from left to right so tip
the iceberg on its side yeah uh and just
think of that fut that big submerged
part that's just that's the future it's
we we don't know the future yet we so we
can't interpret we can't correctly
interpret all this this information
coming at us and and manifesting and all
these oblique uh indirect symbolic ways
uh but that's where it's coming from
it's not coming from some submerged
layer of thought that we're not aware of
because that's kind of a paradoxical
idea anyway um it makes much more sense
to to think of that the unconscious as
our future Consciousness that's that's
impacting us now yeah it's interesting
it's like you get shards of it you know
I often think when I have these sort of
conversations with the AI dogmatic
people you know they think the AI is
going to take over everything I always
say well I think the human mind works in
it fundamentally distinct way and I
often site your book which has a really
interesting model of the Mind as kind of
a hybrid Quantum classical computer and
the very creative and interesting idea
that you bring up and Robert Lanza and
biocentrism also sort of touches on that
uh there's temporal non-locality in
Quantum systems so uh you know you can
do a double slit experiment in the
future it seems like one interpretation
that's affecting you know the one done
with an Tangled Photon in the past
and uh you can even reverse Cubit
positions in in uh Quantum computations
and so a lot of people even who are
working on quantum computers obviously
the bottleneck is the hardware and
getting the chips to work have
hypothesized that you can send
information back in time on the semantic
application layer in a hypothetical
working quantum computer and so if our
brain is a Quantum system which people
as prominent as Roger Penrose has have
you know hypothesized maybe we can
glitch into the future and access some
of some of this information send it back
in time I think this is going to be I
think what you're describing the the
kind of use of quantum
computers uh as
uh Comm or Tesseract is the kind of the
term I use from science fiction as like
these four-dimensional information
processors and communication devices I
mean I think that is really it's kind of
the link it's going to be it's the link
that's going to lead to True time travel
okay I think um uh because it's that
informational time travel uh that you
know uh that's already happening you can
look at biological systems as models for
how it works uh and yeah in a quantum
computer you can theoretically scale up
the the that causal indeterminacy that's
happening on the the quantum level you
can scale that up into like a usable you
know object that you can measure at two
time points and get you know get a sort
of output prior to an input in a sense
yes um and you scale that up uh in a
quantum computer server that you leave
plugged in for many years uh it really
opens the doorway to actually
communicating across time this is the uh
this is the really cool premise of
William Gibson's uh the peripheral I
don't know if you've read the book or
seen the series the series is actually
really quite good um uh it's the the
premise is that this uh video gamer in
the American South you know around now
uh is in this like in this Advanced Sim
and flying this drone in this like
futuristic city and she thinks it's a
Sim whatever and she sees this character
getting murdered like she thinks it's an
NPC getting murdered uh but then she
gets a call uh via quantum computer
server from uh from this publicist who
lives in London in like 22nd century and
he tells her that in fact what she
witnessed she was actually piloting a
real drone in in future London via a
quantum computer server and had
witnessed a real murder and so he like
enlists her Aid in solving the murder
this murder across you know uh you know
a century you know uh it's a really cool
premise but I think William Gibson is is
really appreciate obviously I mean he
fortold uh cyberspace essentially and I
think I think this is the next I think
this is the next thing and I think
people who are thinking about Quantum
Computing simply from the standpoint of
just speeding up number crunching or
whatever are like really missing missing
the boat I I I think it's absolutely the
next thing and the idea that the body is
warm wet and noisy and not you know
actually um a good conducive to Quantum
coherence is slowly being destroyed it's
going out the window you have Quantum
biology you have um you know enzyme
creation using Quantum tunneling you
have Birds navigating home using the cr4
protein spin which is you know basically
a a kind of a magnetometer it's it's
detecting the magnetic field of the
earth and allowing them to do that and
um you have you have other examples as
well and it's these things are getting
proven out over over and over and over
again and I think actually have you are
you familiar with rert sheld Drake by
any chance sure so like I think he
doesn't have you know really clear
mathematical models around how any of
this stuff works but he has really good
experiments
showing that humans in their bodies
often just instinctively know when
certain things are about to happen and
it's almost like we become you know it's
like we know that or animals know that
earthquakes are about to happen uh kids
know when their parents are near and
it's almost like you get overeducated
you get your you know Elite Western
liberal education or whatever and you
like unlearn that but that's of course
like incredibly instinctive it makes
total sense and even prosaically if you
think about how the mind learns it is in
low sample size you come out of the womb
with like you know a fear of snakes and
with a Chomsky and pregrar for certain
things and that's not how a classical
computer works you need to you know look
at like the large language models that
open AI is using you're running the
internet through that thing like those
are two very different things so I think
we have to be open to this Quantum you
know uh precognition of The Future model
absolutely I mean I think that uh you
know steuart Hammer off I'm sure you
know his work on microtubes I think
that's you know that's going to be the I
think micr tuul are probably going to be
the the mechanism here I think there
there many there are many Quantum you
like I said like I say in time Loops I
think the brain a lot of people
simplistically say oh the brain is a
quantum computer it's not that simple
it's a it's a hybrid it's a hybrid of
classical and Quantum systems you know
meshed and we understand at this point
you know through Decades of neuroimaging
and and and Neuroscience that we have at
this point we understand really well
that classical uh the classical circuit
level you know way in which the brain
takes input from the senses and controls
the body and all that you know in this
in a way that you can liken to a you
know a computer chip in a in a robot you
know it's it's just way more complicated
than that but we you know that that is
true that that classical level of
computation and control over our system
is is true but but what's happening
inside neurons is what we're only
beginning to understand and uh and lo
and behold these things that used to be
just thought of as the bones of neurons
uh turn out to be these really
interesting highly Dynamic structures
that oh they're Quantum you know they're
they're it's already been shown that
they uh are U superconduct
uh which really suggests that yeah these
Quantum relationships are going on what
was that study that came out a few
months ago that they're super radiant do
you know what I'm talking about yeah
yeah there's been a bunch of stuff
coming out from this team that hammer
off works with and I don't I'm
forgetting their names but uh yeah
there's a lot of cool stuff coming out
here's but the thing is I think that you
know I almost think that that hammer off
could almost win the Nobel Prize for
this work if he wasn't focused on
Consciousness I think Consciousness is
really kind of a red herring in all this
wanting to to show how this generates
Consciousness but I think and just for
people for people that don't know the
way he tries the way he got on to this
is Penrose created this theoretical
model for you know the brain being a
Quantum system which is kind of
answering this age-old question of why
we see discret ma macroscopic reality in
kind of general relativity form when
actually it's sort of probabilistic you
know and it's you know underlying at
least subatomic nature like where does
that cut off occur and so he he writes
that um uh Emperor's mind or something
and then the emperor's new mind I think
is the one with hammer off Hammer off is
this anesthesiologist who realizes that
when you shut down the microtubules the
rest of the body is running as if it's
totally alive but Consciousness shuts
down and so he thinks it's a center of
Consciousness well that ended of itself
is an interesting point but uh but I
think focusing on the question of
Consciousness I you know it's such a
fraught area you know it's you know
someone on Twitter a c last month posted
a graph of like like 200 different
theories of Consciousness you know and
they all you know I'm I'm sympathetic to
a lot of these you know both the hard
materialist versus the you know the even
the eliminated eliminative materialist
explanations and the pan psych yeah
they're all interesting I think you can
learn from all of them but but I don't
think any any physical explanation is
going to satisfyingly explain
Consciousness yeah and so it's kind of a
hopeless hopeless task to like try and
try and say Here's the answer to
Consciousness with this one physical
process it's a very interesting physical
process but I don't think he's going to
convince people you know with with that
but these microtubes he's studying are I
think the basis for precognition because
if they're quantum computers if uh they
can then theoretically do what we were
talking about which is uh scale up this
ability to sort of have a system where
you measuring at one point and then
measuring at a second point and then
getting information reflexing from that
second measurement and reading it out in
the past you know you string a lot of
those together in some system well then
you have a precognitive circuit and
what's fascinating about micr tube
Wheels is that these control the shape
of the cell they control um uh they
control like the uh dendrites and axons
you know forming new connections and
they control the the the the size of a
synaptic connection like you know when
you have a memory forming they will
expand that that synaptic connection to
facilitate that memory so they're in
charge of memory formation and if
precognition is a form of memory as I
argue and as a lot of people have argued
then right there you have a potential
mechanism you have a potential physical
mechanism to explain this this thing
that has been rejected for for centuries
because oh it's impossible it's you know
has no physical basis well I think we
are now converging on a possible
physical mechanism I mean that's a
testable hypothesis at the very least
have you heard of a Russian scientist
with the last name liberman l i b r okay
uh two friends of mine denil and David
liberman they previously worked at
Snapchat they're absolute Geniuses they
sort of um resemble like Bond villains
or something they like have this mind
meld going on they use one phone they're
very eccentric their father knew uh
hamov and or I think knew Penrose rather
and was uh really interested in
cytoskeletal learning but okay I I have
a I have a different possible candidate
um outside of microtubules for a Quantum
system inside the brain and this is not
I would say mutually exclusive with um
microtubules but are you familiar with
the kodate nucleus and the
paman so Gary Nolan studies this stuff
and you know that's this part of the
basil gangle and the dorsal strium of
the brain and if you hook somebody up to
an fmri while they're playing the game
go you know this more complex East Asian
version of Chess um when they make a
brilliant move and what defines a
brilliant move is a move that doesn't
make any sense in the context of like
the incremental go forward rational
decision it only makes sense in the
context of an end point in which the
person wins so it's often based on the
other person slipping up or what their
their adversary slipping up that part of
the brain lights up in an fmri and so
and then that part of the brain
according to Gary Nolan is also much
more neuronally dense when you you see a
greater preponderance of UFOs and you
have more premonition you're a little
more psychic and so I wonder if that is
not part of the quantum processing at
the very least well the quantum
processing would be again would be going
on within the cells in that brain area
but that's that makes perfect sense the
the that system is part of the reward
system um and so it's it's involved in
our uh registration of rewards our
learning based on rewards our
predictions based on past rewards
um uh and that system I think is Central
you know it's Central it's kind of the
Central classically in that classical
computer uh model uh in terms of the
organism you know changing its Behavior
based on rewards and getting excited
about possible future rewards and
anticipated rewards and all that so
that's what that system is doing but but
the cell but but all the neurons in all
parts of the brain have those
microtubules and have those Quantum uh
components in them so yeah I mean that's
that's G to I'm sure that's going to
somehow prove to be important in you
know in future decades when we
understand this
better and in in time loops and in from
nowhere you have so many just
fascinating examples in kind of the
Zeitgeist and culture of precognition
and so I don't know if you want to you
know just cite some of those like
Michael Richards this resident artist in
the Twin Towers do you remember that one
oh yeah I yes his story is uh it's
tragic but you know fascinating um he
was so Michael Richards this is Michael
Rolando Richards not Michael Richards
the comedian uh but Michael Rolando
Richards was a um a sculptor A black
sculptor in uh the 90s I mean he was
sort of an upand cominging uh sculptor
in the New York art world uh in the
90s and he did a series of like all of
his Works were like obsessed with flight
and uh he would he would do these uh
sculptural self-portraits of himself as
a Tuskegee Airmen and the Tuskegee
Airmen were uh black aviators in World
War II who sort of distinguished
themselves you know in their in their
piloting but then were subject to all
the racism that uh that you might expect
and anyway he would portray himself as a
Tuskegee Airman uh in some sculptures he
had crashed to the ground uh or he had
tried to parachute or was trying to
parachute into a Target that was too
small
or um uh and and in and in the sculpture
that made him most famous uh which he
did in
1999 while he was in
Miami uh he portrayed himself as a
Tuskegee Airman standing vertically
erect and levitating off the ground and
being impaled by airplanes by a bunch of
airplanes and the sculpture is called
tarab versus St Sebastian and St
Sebastian was the was the Medieval Saint
who you know is always depicted like
pierced by arrows uh but anyway so hect
himself pierced by planes as a martyr
pierced by planes okay so he you know on
the basis of the strength of his work
including I assume that sculpture he and
this would be another time Loop uh he
got a um he was awarded Studio space for
six months in the Twin Towers the Lower
Manhattan cultural Council uh had been
uh issuing Studios to like a CO you know
cohorts of 15 artists like like for six
months you know so two cohorts a year
and uh so he was part of the summer 2001
cohort of artists and um he alone among
those artists uh had stayed in his
Studio the night of September 10th and
was killed on the morning of September
11th so when you you know know that
story and then you see this sculpture
that he did um where he's martyred
impaled by planes but the thing is he
was people who visited his Studio said
that he was working on other sculptures
that were similarly like unbelievable
like like one of them was of him riding
a burning
meteor uh and another one was was of his
torso um with wings uh like it was
called Fallen Angel uhuh
so uh and his other works you know he
did some pen and pencil stuff too
including one that had a plane crash
like a lot of sculptures of planes
crashing so crazy um so you know what do
you make of that and uh it's you know
but the thing is this is so common uh in
artists and you when you delve into the
lives of artists I mean there are a lot
of famous cases so there's there's a
famous case that I talk about in in time
Loops uh and you you'll read about it in
most any book on ESP was Morgan
Robertson who was this science fiction
author uh at around the turn of the 20th
Cent Century who wrote this famous novel
well was not famous at the time he wrote
this novel called futility about the
Collision of the biggest ever ocean
liner called the Titan with an with a
with an iceberg on on an April night in
the North Atlantic on its third voyage
between Liverpool and New York okay so
you know 14 years later you have blue
blooded Elite families oh and they all
die because there not enough lifeboats
it's the Titanic essentially um you know
stories like that um but the thing is
when you delve into like and and it's
easy for Skeptics to go oh well you know
in a world of you know chance yeah
that's going to happen you know
sometimes and then we single out those
those examples and we make something of
them but it's all just random well no I
mean you when you study the lives of
artists uh you find this stuff happens
all the time not necessarily with big
events in the news I mean mostly
as with precognitive dreams it happens
mostly with personal upheavals upheavals
in our own lives things that wouldn't
necessarily even be significant to
anybody else but but they are
meaningful to us and When We're Dreaming
or when we're creating art or whatever
we those things come out um and it's
just incredibly incredibly common I mean
I have so many I filled this book with
examples and I've got a million more you
know I've got I'm writing a second book
on the same you know a similar subject
with even more cases from from writers
um so it's just it's a very very common
uh very common phenomenon yeah it's
fascinating you I mean the idea
that profits aren't real is a that's a
modern idea that's a symptom of
modernity it's not um you know that's
kind of an aberration if you look at
actually like the longtime scale of
human civilization and you even I don't
know this is a weird example but like
Alex Jones say wa will about the guy as
far as some of his other beliefs but are
you familiar with he he had an onair
call on CNN where he goes Osama b l if
you take down the the Twin Towers I'm
gonna come after you or something like
it's just this absurd like you know
literally what happened in six months
before and he's like on he's on cable
you can't fake that he's on you know CNN
I didn't know about that there's a
million I mean there's a million there
uh prophecies whatever you want to call
them of 911 I mean there's uh simply by
virtue of the fact that you know the
there was the internet already at that
point and you know people can now
collect all that stuff and put it online
so it's like it's an overwhelming mass
of of material uh prophecy in that event
but yeah yeah it's fascinating yeah
there's so many my dad actually is a
he's kind of a self-help author and he
uh he wrote a book called the tools and
in it he talks about how he would always
dream of an earthquake on Jan January
17th and that was both the day that's my
birthday that's the day I was born and
then two years later that was the
Northridge Quake oh wow in and we live
in LA and so um yeah I don't know very
very interesting and I bet you the more
people you pull like it's it's much
higher percentage of people that can
sort of pull these examples out uh than
than would meet the ey one interesting
instantiation of this that we've talked
about um in our phone calls is you have
this remote viewing program that the CIA
ran I think it was CIA and then DIA from
1972 to 1995 and it was a psychic spy
program and whenever I tell people this
they're like no way like that can't be
real but you have guys like Joseph
mcmonagle who have won the Legion of
Merit for over 200 instances in which
he's helped you know uh add intelligence
and very vital cases finding hostages uh
you know drawing up you know Russian
nuclear sites like pretty pretty intense
interesting stuff and you even have
Jessica UTS who's a statistician out of
Stanford I believe and Ray Heyman who's
a skeptic I think out of University of
Oregon coming in saying you know we
expect this maybe to be debunked and you
know coming in with a you know pretty
scientific method going through the you
know recently Declassified documents for
Stargate that's the name of the program
and coming out saying you know we think
there's some inexplicable thing here and
we actually think that there is sort of
a psychic function when it comes to
human beings so UTS uh did an analysis
of a lot of uh evidence for psychic
functioning not just the Stargate
program I don't believe uh and she found
overwhelming evidence and she's been
very very vocal about this I mean she
was the you know the president of the
American statistical society and stuff
one year and she's you know in her
address that year her presidential
address um you know she said you know
this is this is evidence that would
be nobody would question uh it's so
strong the St statistical you know the
the the quality of the evidence is so
strong that if it were in any other
field nobody would question this yes but
people people reject it and they don't
even want to see the evidence they just
they reject they they don't even want to
confront the EV it's fasc and every
Elite University from the ryin Center at
Duke for I think that was 1931 to
1960 and then you have SRI you know know
in the late 60s early 70s you have the
Princeton anomalous research lab you
have Washington Washi St Louis with
McDonald Douglas they had a
parapsychology program you have a lot of
these Elite universities pretty
open-minded when it comes to kind of
Mind Over Matter effects and remote
viewing and you talk to anybody from
those programs and they all come out
saying yeah we're pretty sure they're
like weak effects they're hard to
instrumentalize you know that's hard to
turn in we we can't turn them into math
we're on the we're in the Stone Age In
this stuff but it's real it's like
definitely real I've got you know I've
got some kind of contrarian opinions
about why they say that the effects are
small or why they get they think they
get small I want to hear your contrarian
opinion well I think they're very often
using the wrong conceptual Frameworks
understanding this stuff I mean I think
you as you probably know from hints in
my work you know I I suspect my
hypothesis is that that a lot of what's
gets called remote viewing is really
precognition y um and I think more and
more I think a lot of people in the
remote viewing Community push back on
that strongly but I I think you know a
lot some of the key players in that
Community are open to that idea more and
more I me I think Russell targ even has
sort of come around to that idea that
that that it's that feedback may be
important Beyond just training remote
viewers that you know maybe
maybe maybe that's what remote viewers
are really seeing they're seeing that
feedback in the future that's a really
interesting point and and the thing is
if you went at it if you studied this
stuff with that in mind what kind of
different results would you get you know
I think people you know from the start
of psychical research you know the the
the this was presumed to be telepathy
that was the model that was introduced
by Frederick Myers in
1882 uh and the societ for psychical
research you know collected all these
Amazing Stories amazing mountain of data
basically and it was all interpreted in
this mode of telepathy at that point
precognition was not even thinkable um
uh and there was this new new technology
the telegraph which provided this nice
metaphor for understanding these effects
you know uh and so you know they uh
psychical research and then early ESP
research kind of carried that forward
and telepathy was dominant model until
the television age okay so the
television age in the second half of the
of the 20th century oh you know it got
reconceptualized and this kind of older
vague idea of Clairvoyance got turned
into the dominant kind of framing for
psychic phenomena you know remote
viewing that's television you know
that's it's it's just T it's taking
another um technology from the culture
and applying it and using it to help
understand some kind of psychic effect
but the thing is if that's not really
what's going on then your results are
only going to get you so you know you're
only going to get uh you're not going to
get the best results if that's if that
Paradigm is dominating your thinking
you're going to miss a lot of evidence
that didn't fit within that Paradigm and
uh and you're not going to be studying
it in the most
effective way um so you know that's my
again that's my contrary in opinion A
lot of people will throw tomatoes at the
TV set at the computer when they when
they see me say that I mean people in
remote you know who do remote viewing
you know very much favor the idea that
you know their Consciousness is
non-local and that they are traveling
across space or seeing you know things
across space but uh I think there's
compelling reason
to to think that this is a this is a
temporal relationship well I spoke to
how put off who ran the Stargate the
psychic fire program for the CIA for a
very long time about your hypothesis
that actually it's precognition you're
accessing a future knowledge State and
that your feedback that the target was
right so say you drop a Russian nuclear
base getting confirmation that that was
actually correct might be essential to
actually the accuracy of the remote
viewing in the per first place because
you're not just yet remote perceiving
anything and he seemed open to it so I I
I don't know you know the fact that he's
open to I mean he's as deep as anybody
on this stuff scientifically so that's
that's a good sign for you but I guess
in the case of like a random event
generator or like you know affecting a
random quantum mechanical process with
your mind how would that fit in with
sort of you know it wouldn't be like
you'd have a pre- knowledge of the
result or something well there's two
answers of that one is you know PK
doesn't need to be any doesn't need to
be related to precognition I mean
there's there's a lot that we don't know
about about
uh the mind and its abilities and
effects of of biological systems on
things in the vicinity you know there
are a lot of possibilities there but I
I'm not a believer in this construct of
sigh you know this this it was it was
that was originally a word that was just
to denote a black box I mean this is
what we don't know about let's call it
sigh but like was originally for the the
Greek letter for the for the wave
function for well equation yeah but um
but in parapsychology it just sort of
became this black box term but it like
all blackbox terms it got reified and
people like took it oh there's this
thing called Sai and it's this force or
or whatever and people treat it as a
thing rather than just as open question
and calling these dis these different
things Sai is itself biasing people
towards towards thinking that they're
going to find one force or something
that that that explains all these things
and I don't think that's the case at all
I mean I think
precognition uh
has I'm you know anticipating that
there's going to be a a
pretty
uh not that amazing uh physical you know
process mechanism that can explain it
but but PK effects may be explained very
differently may have a very different uh
something very different going on there
but the second answer though is that
there is the possibility that um
research on PK effects is uh is
influenced by the experimenters
precognition and this is an argument
that's been made by Ed May um I don't
know if you've talked to him before but
he he sort of took over the he from H
put off he sort of uh LED that program
or the research arm of that program the
sort of its final decade until it was
you know uh Declassified and supposedly
ended in 1995 don't think it ever ended
yeah
but uh the argument he he has made is
that you know he's he's not a believer
in the PK stuff he thinks that the micro
PK results that's that is the effects
supposed effects of Consciousness on
random number generators uh can be
explained by um uh I forget the term he
uses but he has a good term for oh
decision augmentation uh that pre pre
the the researchers precognition is
drawing them to start an experiment or
start a trial at a time when the random
numbers are just GNA are going to
generate the results that he wants or he
here or she wants um I think uh that is
I haven't looked at the the PK data so I
can't speak to that but I I think that
decision augmentation theory is
potentially hugely important across
science um because this if this is an
effect then what kind of effect is this
happening
uh in any kind of biophysical experiment
or in the Health Sciences or in
Psychology um uh it could be a huge
hugely important factor who knows in the
in the replication crisis that we're
seeing I it's uh I I think it's a a
really important question that uh I hope
some people will start sort of I hope
some people will take that ball and run
with it and and really uh investigate
that potential but you have to you have
to accept pre first that's that's the
barrier that we're up against right now
yeah yeah it's a big barrier um when it
comes to kind of remote viewing anything
in the future or these prophecies or
predictions sometimes it feels like
you're
looking uh at like a bunch of
alternative possible timelines and you
know you're not you're not looking at
you know the definite thing you know and
so like how would you explain that I'm
not a believer in alternative timelines
okay you are you're a block un block
Universe guy and I think that that
giving
ourselves
timelines I do and I don't this is a you
know this is its own conversation and
and you know we can we can go down the
rabbit hole on that but um that's the
hang-up yes the hang-up is Free Will
that's why people don't want to think
about this stuff yeah but I think we
need to be brave and confront you know
confront this idea and that means
temporarily taking your belief in free
will
setting aside and just see what see what
the data shows us
and uh I I think that it's it's kind of
a copout to resort to sort of the many
worlds and the multiple timelines and
and all that um because in actual
reality if the everettian many
worlds um interpretation were
correct uh it means that there's
practically
infinite M par universes there's not
just one where you know I got in the car
accident and one where I didn't I mean
there's a million not there's infinite
variations there so it immediately makes
kind of absurd this idea that oh I'm
seeing an alternative timeline I mean
how how do you how do you even constrain
that how do you make that into any kind
of right scientifically
testable idea and I I I find it I find
it implausible and uh and not
interesting honestly I think it's much
more interesting to think about how an
actual future is
is inflecting or influencing us and
sending us messages but in a way that we
inevitably
misinterpret so that we so that those
time Loops happen uh and this gets back
to the Freud stuff because you know
Freud was a theorist of symbolic
transformation how uh how events in our
lives and he thought that they were
advented our past lives got not past
lives but I mean our prior history get
transformed symbolically and our
thoughts get transformed symbolically
into dreams
well what I argue in time loops and and
my second book precognitive Dream Work
and the long self
that uh it's actually be precisely
because of those time Loops that have to
be fulfilled that we as freely willed
beings only get information from the
future indirectly obliquely
symbolically um and that's why there's
this kind of ironic logic to fate that's
why Fate has this kind of edle logic
where we fulfill prophecies precisely by
trying to evade them where you know
outcomes in our future uh we don't see
clearly we see them um
uh symbolically transformed we
misunderstand them and those
misunderstandings get us to take the
actions that lead to them but that
doesn't mean that we're faded to like
you know if we have a dream about a a
car accident we're we're going to have
that car accident very often we I dream
about a car accident and there are tons
of examples of this that I've collected
from from readers in my books but also
in the
literature you know people will have a
dream about a car accident and they'll
come to the intersection where they like
oh my God I dreamed about car accident
here and they'll suddenly be put on
alert and they'll just narrowly avoid a
car accident so so yes the obvious
interpretation is that oh oh my we I
took a different timeline you know the
dream was showing me one timeline I took
a different one the simpler explanation
is that Collision in your dream was kind
of a what if it was kind of like a close
call and you and you you know when we
have a close call we always imagine in
our heads what would have happened we
you know those that catastrophizing
thinking uh and especially after we have
a close call we like oh my God that
could have you know I we could have
collided I think it's those thoughts
those thoughts about near
misses uh any thought that gives that
that reminds you of your
survival that's the kind of stuff that
reflexes back in time in your Tess brain
uh and so yeah we have dreams about
catastrophes that we in reality nearly
miss or avoid um but there's a way in
which our brain focuses on those kinds
of near misses and situations that in
one way or another remind us of our
survival because makes perfect sense
right that precognition would
presentiment would
arise uh as part of our sort of as you
know darwinian reality of of of survival
and and our persistence in the BL
universe that I think is the messages
we're getting in precognition so on the
one hand so it's not an alternative
timeline you're seeing it's a wh if it's
a or it's a a thought about a near miss
or or a thought about a worst case that
that fortunately you avoided so that's
how I interpret those those um those
kinds of examples are you familiar with
the Donald Hoffman by any chance so he
believes that you know um your
perception itself has to be Fitness
selected it has to actually be kind of
perceptually adaptive in a way that it's
it's not adaptive for you to actually
see the substrate of underlying reality
and then you have this other guy I
believe his name is Dean buano your
brain is a time machine and he talks
about how our brains have to sort of uh
work
on life time scale they we can't work on
these sort of cosmic time scales and you
touch on this with this concept of sort
of the long body or the the the you know
the Tesseract mind so what what what
does this mean is there there's sort of
this more primordial version of us that
we're interacting with and we interact
with it when it's sort of these life and
death you know like yeah that of it
makes sense that you would you would get
the prophecy about the car crash or
whatever because that part of you
doesn't want to get the car crash or
something that's like the most adaptive
naturally selected thing for you to know
how how does this work well yeah that's
a great question and I think there it
gets to this kind of dichotomy we talked
about between the the classical computer
of the brain that's that's you know it
really the classical computer of the
brain has to be it has to be controlling
our actions right in this moment and no
other moment like you you know you don't
want to be
that's you're going to be you know uh
completely dysfunctional you know you
have to you know your body your senses
and actions and everything happening in
your body has to be coordinated to be
most effective at this instant in time
so that classical computer
system of the the brain you know is
really it's it's doing that um but
there's these probably Quantum processes
that are helping um for instance syncing
it up you know like you have nerves that
that travel up the length of your of of
your body like you step on a attack um
that has to be synchronized with the
immediate you know the the the visual
signal of the tack which is immediate
because your eye is right here um and so
this is the the Benjamin libbit work
back in the 70s and 80s his those
landmark studies that he did showing
that there's this this this neural
sinking of of all these different uh uh
uh sensory all this different sensory
information that has to has different
flight times you know through the brain
so it all syncs up but it puts us
uh like a half second in our past
according to that prediction but we're
not half second in our past uh so
something Quantum is probably going on
there to readjust then uh these
Sensations and coordinate them but then
the what you're what you're asking about
though is those those longer time frame
kind of precognitive or PR sentimental
signals those have to sort of inflect us
and you know Orient us and maybe impact
our decision- making for instance or
what we think of as our Free Will um so
it's on on that kind of level that that
precognition is operating and there
again it's why it's always outside of
conscious awareness our Consciousness
you it's always in it's not something
we're aware of because it's not right
now it's not part of the now that the
classical brain is constructing um out
of our experience um I don't know if
that makes sense but it's it's another
reason why I'm I'm impatient with with
people who keep throwing the word
Consciousness around in these in these
contexts of psychic phenomena also you
know UFOs and stuff everyone wants to
say Consciousness conscious is all about
Consciousness I I think that that's a
distraction and it and it doesn't help
us see how these things actually work um
but as you mentioned Donald Hoffman yeah
his work is really interesting
I I I don't know what to make of it I I
feel like it's overstated a little bit
you know I feel like
[Music]
um he's kind of over I think I think a
lot of scientists sort of do this when
they when they want want their ideas to
to to have legs uh I I I know I
myself in my writing I kind of overstate
things a little bit CU you want you know
have an interesting idea and you want to
see if it sticks sticks to the wall you
know like throwing spaghetti at the wall
or whatever um I don't know if I if I
would go with go as far as he does and
saying that we don't perceive reality at
all you know he sort of Likens our
perception to icons on the computer
screen you know that that that what
we're seeing is the fitness what I
forget how he phrases it we're seeing
the fitness uh value of
of of things I don't know about that I I
think he's partly right certainly um but
whether he's completely right I don't
know so do you believe we're in some
sort of maybe platonic cave and we're
seeing something that is is not at all
like reality and you know occasionally
we sort of Glimpse the light or do you
think we're seeing something that's just
just perceptually adaptive but you know
yeah I don't know I feel like it's
somewhere in between you know I think I
think there's something slightly cave
like about yeah about our experience but
I'm I I wouldn't go so far as to kind of
that sort of extreme kind of Gnostic
view that that that we're we're in this
you know complete bubble uh Truman Show
kind of well we the gnostics are you
familiar with RZ ver do you know so you
know he talks about kind of this
simulation hypothesis the Multiverse
simulation and I do I'm sympathetic to
this idea that maybe you your
Consciousness is being ported into this
sort of sensory reductive you know 3D
time bound world and that there is this
more primordial self that the Greeks
would you know say you experience in
forms of sort of noesis you forget
yourself when you get when you're born
and you know this sort of anamnesis
process and then through these you know
mystery rituals that all these guys used
to perform at like ucus they experienced
their primordial selves and so you think
that that's a possible model where you
occasionally get these sort of downloads
from on high from your sort of higher
self but uh mostly you just have access
to the kind of sensory stuff but the
senses are
actually uh reductive on a default state
of possibly greater omniscience they're
not sort of productive which is uh you
know Aldis Huxley William James they
would be sort of fans of this model as
well right the reducing valve model yeah
um well yeah what you're describing is
you know what Mystics throughout
throughout time have said that because
they have these experiences of higher
Consciousness or whatever and and sort
of there's this kind of implicit model
that what we're living on a day-to-day
basis is this kind of reduced
constricted constrained um uh thing I
mean I think the but again we have you
know to just survive in the world you
know if we were going through life in
this mystical State we'd immediately get
eaten by a predator you know it's like
you you've got to you've got to deal
with uh the real world and and and then
sometimes you know have these
expanded uh experiences those are
equally important but I think it's sort
of it sells us sells that that
pragmatic um reality short to say oh
it's like living in a cave you know it's
like you know we need to we need to have
that
reduced pragmatic Focus uh a lot of the
time you know and yeah we we can't be
living our higher self all the time so
this notion that we're evolving towards
like always living a higher self kind of
state I'm not I'm I don't quite buy that
kind of evolutionary view in that sense
how do UFOs play into all of this I know
UFO in some sense LED you into this work
yourself do you think UFOs have anything
to do with the the model overall of time
that you have
have
um yes and no I there's a
common uh
offard claim nowadays in the UFO world
that and it goes along with this idea
that oh it's really about Consciousness
and stuff an offered idea that that
somehow our precognitive experiences and
synchronicities and all those things are
somehow part of the phenomenon or part
of this UFO phenomenon which I think is
totally not true I mean precognition is
intrinsic to who we are as as creatures
and I think it's intrinsic to all life
probably um and people sort of think
that they're all part of one thing um
maybe because they get interested in
them together as I did uh you know you
you have one remarkable experience it's
going to lead you to reading about other
remarkable experiences and uh and
certainly openness to certain kinds of
experiences you know if you're open to
seeing UFOs you're probably open to your
dreams and and and having pre cognitive
dreams and so on but I don't think
there's any intrinsic connection
there um but but the the UFO question is
is hugely interesting to me and uh and I
think this time Loops model is like
really possibly very important I'm a I'm
a I'm totally in agreement with Mike
Masters who I know you've yeah um
interviewed that that uh
the strongest hypothesis I think about
what is
underlying the the real core of the UFO
phenomenon I mean I think there's a lot
of a lot of deception and and scop stuff
going on too but the real core there
probably involves you know very likely
involves time traveling uh humans or
involves time traveling technology at
the very least yeah um and if so then
all the things that we can start to
understand about time travel just from
our own experience and from uh that is
say our own PR cognitive experiences and
all these things that we were talking
about like time loops and the ways in
which stuff from the
future influences stuff in the past and
H in a way that that
history is
self-consistent uh those same factors
are gonna are going to be really
important in uh in time travel and in
our development of time traveling
technology um we already talked about
the the quantum computer sort of step
towards that um I think that that that
technology of communicating across time
uh is going to kind cause an
acceleration technological acceleration
um towards more advanced technology and
towards probably solving these problems
of of physical time travel um but uh
yeah I think I I think time travel is is
hugely important and so so yeah I mean
if there's a way if there's a place to
look for time travel besides Quantum
time traveling information it's probably
the UFO
phenomenon maybe there's something about
biology that is a porting
of something that's a little more
probabilistic or Quantum and maybe
biology becomes vestigal in the future
and actually what we're interacting with
is some sort of kind of Quantum Code or
something that's Unbound by biological
constraints because I think about your
model of time loops and it's you're kind
of glitching into some like information
layer of the future or whatever but the
Mike Master's thing is like you're
literally seeing these like beings that
are like from the future and those are
two very distinct things and you could
find some sort of like you know
biological matter transporter but maybe
more likely we just become the sort of
quantum
information systems or something that
can you know I don't know time edit at
will and you know kind of show up at
will and almost be more information
theoretic like in a John Wheeler model
of the universe or something than you
know
us yeah there's all kinds of
possibilities I mean I'm just um one of
the you know like one of the premises
like we talked about the the peripheral
you know it's like at one point in the
story this you know guy in the future
the user in the future uh sends so it's
the character in the 20th century she
happens to work at the local 3D print
shop okay and so he sends her in
instructions to 3D print this this you
know future technology headset that
enables her to like visit the future in
an avatar and stuff like that um but
that idea of trans you know 3D you know
printing out information in the present
based on information from the future is
going to be part of this you know this
halfway house basically to time travel
you know in the sense that you know you
could have say a drone operator in the
future you know you know control a drone
in the past and you know that's been
built from future technology but but but
with a present capabilities of a 3D
printer you could essentially have a
future uh you know time drone ESS
uh flying around that's under the
control of someone in the future you
know via uh an existing you know 3D or
the existing Quantum uh server you know
so we're going to start seeing really
interesting phenomena the moment the
first quantum computers come online and
of course the idea that maybe they're
already online you know in deep black
programs somewhere you know there's that
you know it's a it's just it's an
interesting variant of the idea of of a
a flying saucer coming through a
wormhole you know into the past you
could have a flying saucer that's been
built in the present based on
information from the future and that's
maybe even controlled by someone in the
future via a Quantum server um there's
just all kinds of possibilities that I
think we need to start thinking
realistically not just about you know
these high strangeness UFO encounters
but think about what are the
possibilities what are the things that
we're going to do when we have these
Technologies you know maybe in a few
years yeah you know what are the effects
that's going to have on society what are
the phenomena that we're going to start
encountering in daily life because of
this new relationship to our future when
we have quantum computer servers that we
leave plugged in you know for years
decades centuries um that's going to be
transformative um you know if anything
that you know I think of the the idea of
the singularity you know the you know
the ort of brink after which human
history becomes unpredictable well I
think that that you know it's not
spiritual machines that are going to do
it it's it's this time traveling
technology that comes from uh or this
informational time traveling technology
that comes from quantum computer servers
that are going to allow this this new
relationship to our
future and it could be incredibly
destabilizing you know it's like the
first people to use these devices are
going to get very rich
by by you know predicting stock
fluctuations and and all that um so I
don't know but when we talked earlier
about somebody having a premonition of a
car crash and that being sort of
adaptive because that's based on this
like really important survival mode for
them that you know or you know they have
to be cognizant of that when that you
know the event possibly is about to
occur so they swerve out or whatever I
had the thought that on a kind of a more
macro scale when it comes to humanity
these UFOs seem to show up consistently
around nuclear sites yeah and so if you
were trying to find kind of the
Archimedes lever like the point of most
leverage for affecting timelines when it
came to humanity he would probably go
straight to nuclear sites yeah and so
maybe that points to these things
pushing us towards some teeology
right um yeah I mean the the point of of
time travel is or one of the points of
time travel is not going to be you
people think of this in terms of again
changing timelines and stuff I think
that's that's not the way to think about
it I think you know you can go into the
past and you can do stuff in the past
and have effects and you can plant the
seeds for things that you will then
harvest in the future so you know you
can go into the past and and uh affect
things in a shape things in a way that
that will then pay off for you you can
plant the way I put it in my second book
is you can plant seeds in the past for a
better tomorrow you
know like so the a simplistic example
that that um that I use it's you know it
there's all kinds of problems with this
thought experiment but just you know go
with me you know so say you have a
quantum computer server that's um that
you leave plugged in from the you know
from now until you know for centuries um
and it's connected to uh 3D printers big
3D printers industrial 3D printers and
say say you're working for uh you're an
astronomer in the 22nd century uh and
you discover uh an asteroid that's
that's on collision course for Earth um
and it's you know you've you've detected
it too late to to intervene to to send a
rocket to deflect the the asteroid oh
but you have a Quantum mura that's
connected to uh 3D printers on the
moon's Far Side say and you you know you
send an instruction to print out a
rocket
uh you know 30 years in your past and
launch the rocket and and so it you know
when you detect the the asteroid but
there's a rocket right there that that
destroys it because you launched it in
in the past um that that kind of
scenario there's all kinds of ways in
which that kind of
logic uh can be incredibly useful for
obvious reasons you know not just in in
amassing huge wealth but in you know
solving problems that that ordinarily
take too long to solve if you can you
can recruit the past to help you solve
that problem um or or say you know uh
pandemics you know say uh uh there's
this you know you know a new you know
virus is is discovered that's you know
super deadly but you can you know and
it's going to be a huge pandemic unless
you do something quickly well you can
you know use you know again use the same
setup to do kinds of all the needed
trials and and Drug development you know
10 years in the past uh so that the the
vaccine is ready by the time the the
virus you know presents itself that kind
of you know using the past to to solve
problems in the present that wouldn't be
soluble otherwise um because they just
take too long you know not just because
it's a computer not just because it's a
mathematical problem that requires too
many years of number crunching but
because you actually need people and
machines and infrastructure to deal with
the problem uh that takes time uh so
that kind of thing again this is why I
see this this kind of intermediate
technology towards physical time travel
being like super important in coming
years um with with Quantum computation
there are other models of physical time
travel that involve uh possibly
manipulation of gravity which is very
related to Sure Time in the general
relativity well that's the next thing
that's that's that's what will come next
you know and and there you're not
limited to going you know sending
information back in time just to when
you turned on your quantum computer and
there you're you're free to to travel as
far back as you want in time potentially
you know whether you're using a wormhole
or a what I call a Time Shi which would
be you know some kind of are you
familiar with de glocka do you know what
that is no this German the Nazi Bell
where uh you create a you know super
high voltage uh uh o o over a short
distance and it's this bell with a
ceramic internal chamber where you know
there are two ways to change gravity to
affect gravity you know enough mass and
enough energy we think of not you know
being able to have the capacity to have
enough energy to actually affect gravity
in a real way but if you have enough
Mass you can obviously do it if you have
tons and tons of energy you might be
able to do it with high really high
voltages you know electric plasma
thrusters so there's this rumor of this
like Nazi werv vafa program under SS
officer Hans commer and he had this sort
of bell-shaped object and the guys that
were working on this reportedly were
Ernest growz who was head of the SS
medical division so that probably means
you know would imply that there are
people involved right and Walter gerlock
who was a a gravity uh physicist he was
a physicist very focused on gravity and
you would put somebody inside the
chamber and you would uh pour the whole
thing with it so much voltage that uh
You' create kind of a different inertial
reference frame inside the chamber so
like every second on the outside would
be a thousandth of a second on the
inside you'd slow time down just like in
a black hole in general relativity the
closer you get to a black hole the more
time slows that you know gravitational
source and you walk out you know and all
of a sudden you're a thousand years in
the future so it's a sort of wacky model
but I got really interested in this um
you know mid-century inventor this kind
of gravity inventor named um Thomas
townzen Brown right and kind of the
subtext of his whole story is actually
that he's extremely interested in time
travel and that he thinks that gravity
manipulation leads to time travel and so
I I find that kind of a very fascinating
little you know yeah maybe part of the
yeah maybe it's the next the
intermediate step before you know pure
pure information transfer Allah the
movie The fly or something area um
that's cool yeah do you think um you
know like uh I I think about have you
read like like the lectures by schroen
Jer like what is life no I have not I
have I have it I have not read it yes
because he he talks about these per
these AP periodic crystals in the DNA
that are
somehow really important uh information
receptacles for and is it's sort of
speculative and I think he doesn't
really have like a really good good
model for this at the time I I don't
even think we had the double helical
structure of DNA at time it was 1944
right so he's talking about this and I
think he what he's sort of implying is
that like that's like the that's the
port between the sort of quantum world
and the you know more biological world
or something well that's really
interesting you say that because i' I've
you know thinking back to this idea of
like 3D printing something based on
information from the future I've you
know I'm totally speculative but what if
DNA is that is that is like a Quantum
server and that you know that's DNA
controls you know the protein you know
uh proteins and all that so what if what
if that is essentially what we are is 3D
printed uh you know drones essentially
based on information from our
evolutionary future you know it's it it
just sort of opens up uh that's
interesting possib you know Maxwell's
equations work forwards just as they
work backwards and the more I get deep
into the UFO thing the only time the
door shuts on me is around this model of
what's called extended electrodynamics
it's not around like UFOs are real like
that's being pushed clearly but there's
this like secret science component of
all of this and I think it's like this
extended electrodynamics this idea that
actually a more faithful adherence to
the original 21 Maxwell's equations and
not the kind of compression of Oliver
heavy side into these four Vector
calculus equations might actually
represent you know true reality more and
actually uh allow for all these exotic
wave types outside of the transverse
herzan wave and so it might explain some
of this sort of you know this eye stuff
that's like spooky action at a distance
that's kind of kind of weird because you
don't get the typical you know electrons
pairing off sort of thing or attenuation
over SpaceTime or through material or
whatever um but there's one of these
wave types I realize this is a crazy
rabbit hole but one of these wave types
is a called Helio coidal and it's shaped
like DNA and so there's there's this guy
named Constantine M and he's in the
black forest of Germany and he's
studying you know uh this extended
version of electrodynamics on plants and
he thinks that you know it can affect
DNA in these sort of super and you had
this guy Luke Monier who's this French
Nobel Prize winner at the end of his
life if he was saying you know
electromagnetism is really important for
communication information transfer
within DNA Within These aquous Nano
structures in DNA I have no idea whether
any of this is true but DNA is it's so
clearly this information receptacle like
and that's clearly what it's there for I
mean you can you can cold store semantic
information on it like from a use it
like a computer server it just takes a
while to retrieve so that's it's just
fascinating yeah I want to know you know
I'm not in the you know I'm not a
physicist and I'm not certainly not a a
Quantum physicist and I'm not a Quantum
biologist so you know I'm at a certain
limit with my understanding but I you
know it's speculatively it's fascinating
and I would love to know more about the
quantum uh Quantum Computing processes
or uh aspects or capabilities of DNA
yeah because it seems like that's that
could be key totally do you do you what
do you think of John Wheeler because I'm
I'm a big fan of his and I've heard you
talk about him in other interviews and
to me he's he comes closest to my model
of the world with the sort of
information theoretic approach yeah
totally I I yeah I love wheeler and I'm
particularly fond of that his U diagram
are you familiar with his uh that that
diagram he wrote you know with the U
it's kind of more of a glyph you know of
the the U with an where one tip of U is
the big bang and the other tip is an
eyeball staring back at the big bang and
you know that I think is right I mean I
think he's he's and he was working with
uh not quite retrocausation he was
working with uh the that kind of model
that well you can affect a system by
deciding whether to measure it as a
particle or wave you know that kind of
delayed that delayed choice is sort of a
that again it's kind of I think a
conceptual halfway house to True
retrocausation um but if you add if you
add real retrocausation in there which I
think there there are some very
compelling models uh of of real
retrocation I mean Yakir aov uh his
two-state vector formalism and
um uh ideas Kramer yeah I mean kram is a
bit different um it's a handshake it's a
handshake but it doesn't I don't think
Kramer model really allows like
affecting the path in a way that that I
think aov's model might um anyway if you
if
you add to Wheeler's u a real
retrocausal um interpretation of quantum
mechanics uh plus all the time time
traveling technology and all the those
possibilities that that become more and
more potentially prevalent in the
universe as the universe ages you know
like you have the potential of of truly
retr
causing you know retr causing the big
bang you know in a in a big loop and I I
love that model um and if time travel
becomes possible at any point in the
future it's inherently always been
possible right right which is fast right
well it's if it becomes possible at any
point of the future then then Time
Travelers have always been here and
could be present at the beginning of the
universe and it would explain the alien
thing and it would explain all this sort
of like Forbidden Archaeology stuff you
know you have like um the anti theor
mechanism and all sorts of like
precociously Advanced architecture from
the past and you know all the alien
mythology and lore you know it would
just be these sort of time editing you
know uh future versions of ourselves
that have figured out time travel and
are maybe trying to sway things towards
a specific
teleology what you know also interests
me is is the possibility
that the search for dark matter and dark
energy could
be
um that this may have something to do
with that that that you know what if you
know what if these trans temporal
effects what if the effects of
massive uh massive time traveling
technology or wormholes or or something
are affecting the mass of of galaxies in
their future and that that somehow
affects things in the present that we
can't detect oh that's I just um you
know again I'm I I I'm beyond my level
of of of of cosmological understanding
but it just seems like you know there's
retrocausation and time travel are the
missing are the things is missing from
our understanding of so many phenomena
right now I feel like there's going to
be a
uh there's gon to be a paradigm shift
there's got to be a paradigm shift um
that that where people wake up and go oh
well I think you know Stephen Spielberg
who I think is very clued into all the
UFO stuff has you know since he was I
think a kid he was super into UFO
obviously made et he made you know Close
Encounters of the Third Kind he's told
this guy Robert leafield who I think
created Deadpool that you know um UFOs
are like what do you think is more
likely that these are like you know from
Zeta reticuli proximus centari or that
they are future selves sort of guarding
our our you know our present and making
sure that certain timelines get Su stain
and I just think that is the clearest
you know kind of aams Razor explanation
and it is it is Paradigm shifting and
it's it's bizarre to kind of conceive of
um and yet it's it's very interesting
and it would o involve factions it would
involve maybe different version
depending on which type of universe you
believe in it might involve different
versions of the future trying to sustain
themselves or something well or just
different you know F yeah different
future faction you know there doesn't
need to be a unified sure you know
civilization in our future I mean we're
very divided now and we and we you know
we fight amongst ourselves and and
countries are at war with each other you
know that could happen across time time
too you know you could have uh you know
I don't know just to take some example
you know Russian Time Travelers in in in
in 50 years going back in time to the
United States and meddling in ways that
will benefit them in the future and just
as we you might have American Time
Travelers you know doing say you we we'd
have like
multiple uh factions you know
intervening in each other's histories
and what what do you think of Philip K
dick you write about him
fromwhere you kind of talk about him and
you talk about who's a massive fan of
his and I'm big fan of both but I also
think their worldview is just so
fascinating and and specifically Philip
K dick you know I think people don't
fully realize how real he thought a lot
of this stuff was and how
autobiographical a lot of his stories
are uh you bring up valis but I think he
even gave a speech in Mets in France in
like 1976 or S where he goes no like the
man the High Castle was actually a real
timeline where you know they're these
simulators and they simulated this
version of World War II where the
Japanese and the Germans won and they
you know cut America in half and then
they decided to rewind the clock because
that you know didn't quite work out yeah
the the simulators were re rewinding the
JFK assassination multiple times trying
to make it work out yeah it's it's
fascinating yeah no he was he was a
fascinating character and and definitely
troubled I mean you know he had a
million different versions of reality
going on and and was you know pretty
[__] up guy in a lot of ways but
brilliant and and uh and probably of you
know he was the
only artist that I've like studied in my
you know work on artist and writers who
really understood and basically accepted
what I'm arguing which is that artists
are influenced by their future I mean
that that he he knew he was a precog he
knew
um he was precognitive and it wasn't
just these W weren't just empty claims I
mean he you know it's very clear in his
writing he sometimes writing about his
own future experiences and you can see
actually you can go back to his letters
I mean he was very open at writing about
his dreams and stuff in letters and you
can see even examples of recognition
that he didn't detect that's wild like
what's an example of that so that shows
it's not all this crazy signaling where
he's just trying to act like there's an
example that I write about in new book
um that he in so say by my argument in
in one of the chapters of my new book is
that you know he and jacqu ble were kind
of prec cognizing each other's work and
that in fact veis is
Val um because they both read each
other's work they were both writing uh
in 1974 1975 that's when uh valet was
writing the invisible college and that's
when dick was writing the first draft of
what became veis it was at that point uh
I mean they published fortunately they
published that first draft postumus it's
a radio free albamu um but he was he
already had this this this word had come
to him veis and and it and this story
that he wrote around this
idea is all to be found in jacqu Val's
book um this the idea of a teaching like
satellite and the idea of of of people
receiving you know awakened people
receiving signals from some uh distant
star that are designed to to you know uh
uh save us from some Peril or whatever
there's so many parallels between these
two books but neither of them could have
read each other at that point um so the
argument is a little complex but but
yeah there's a convergence there a
precognitive convergence I think um
but uh the one of the examples of of
Phil Dick's many precognitive dreams was
that around I think this was in
1974 he had a
dream where
uh there are a lot of details of this
dream but it was like there was these
these dommin these small alien creatures
um I think came out of a spaceship gave
him some piece of technology uh but
there was another part of the dream
where he was he was shown a a a a
brownie I think or or that that had been
scored by a fork around around its edges
and it was somehow a relief map okay but
it was to do with this oh and and
someone told him oh don't take that it
belongs to um Betty
Fields he he miss he misremembered the
name Betty Hill as Betty field and he
thought oh this is a reference to the
UFO abduct
um so 3 years later he's like super
excited when he sees Close Encounters uh
and he doesn't make a connection to that
dream but a dream of like diminutive
childlike creatures coming out of a
spaceship a a piece of food that's
scored by a fork around the edges I mean
that's like that's the scene in Close
Encounters where he Fork scores you know
mashed potatoes around the edge you know
and it's a relief map turns out to be a
relief map essentially of of of Devil's
Tower um and and idea and that all being
linked to a UFO someone who's had a UFO
encounter I think it's it work that's
the way precognitive dreams work they
they work on associations you know they
don't present something literally but
they present you know a set of
associations around this core thing I
think he was prec cognizing Spielberg's
movie that's fascinating that people
prec cognize movies that way all the
time
um uh yeah so yeah he was but there's so
many examp examples like that and a lot
of them he was aware of you know he'd
have this dream and then oh my God the
next day you know this this thing
happens it was just like in his dream
and you know he's not making this stuff
up I have a really weird actually
personal example that's just came out
I'll figure out whether I'm gonna cut
this or not but I I was hanging out with
a friend and he was like man like you
should go to France he just set it out
of nowhere and I was like why why should
I go to France man he was like I don't
know I kind of see you dating a French
girl or something and I was like
interesting okay and he he was like my
last girlfriend he knew her and he was
like yeah she was you know British but
she kind of had like this American
mentality like I think you need like a
EUR true European ment whatever and he's
like I'm I'm convinced of this because I
just saw this movie um Before Sunset
made by Richard linklater and the main
character's name is Jesse and um and I'm
like man I love that movie I love
Richard linky he's amazing I'm like I
that movie is incredible and he's like
yeah I kind of see you with this like
you know the character like Julie Del or
whatever I'm like she's awesome she's be
I wouldn't be down for that and so the
next day on a whim I book a trip to
France and I end up being there for the
whole summer and in Paris I end up
dating a girl and then I I come back and
her her name was Selene her name I come
back and I watch the movie Before Sunset
and her name was Julie delp's
character's name isn't that weird that's
incredible yeah that's nuts well there's
a Time Loop there because he told you
this and then yeah literally it affected
your actions and and I was thinking
about it in the back of my head where
I'm like that's kind of why I made the
decision which is crazy to make a
decision based on that but it felt like
you know yep the right synchronicity or
something to act on but people that
synchronicity sort of the the go-to term
that people use when this kind of stuff
happens you know because they don't have
a concept of recognition for the most
part yeah uh so you know synchronicity
will work you know um yeah maybe
precognition yeah yeah that's um but and
then and then jock Valle is How I
Learned of valis because I was at his
apartment he was like this is my
favorite book so maybe you're on to
something but Eric I appreciate your
time man this was awesome uh we could
probably go much longer but uh this was
fantastic and uh everybody go out and
buy from nowhere uh it's a really
fantastic book and time Loops thank you
very much it's been fun finally finally
getting to sit down and talk we made it
happen